DOCSP-13841: insert a doc pg (#19)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/fundamentals/crud/write-operations/insert.txt

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol
   
Overview
--------

In this section, we show you how to call the write operations to **insert**

> documents from a collection in your MongoDB database.

Reviewer: Lets include an "In this guide, you can learn ..." statement

> first need to perform an **insert operation** to load data. An insert

Reviewer: Issue: This sentence seems a bit long and a bit confusing without the context on the other drivers pages.
I can see a user wondering "What kind of information/data?"

Author: I added the same examples of information that are present on the Node pg but it sounds a bit odd now. Wouldn't you say that the kind of information would be specific to each user so they wouldn't wonder about what kind? Maybe another solution is to say documents instead of information.

Reviewer: Agreed, I think changing it to say "document" solves this! I'll show what I have in mind in the next review

operation inserts one or more documents into a MongoDB collection
using one of the following methods: ``insertOne()``, ``insertMany()`` and ``bulkWrite()``.

The following sections focus on ``insertOne()`` and ``insertMany()``. For an
example on how to use the ``bulkWrite()`` method, see the :doc:`Bulk
Operations Usage Example </usage-examples/bulkWrite>`.

A Note About ``_id``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When inserting a document, MongoDB enforces one constraint on your

> documents by default, which is that each document *must* contain a unique ``_id``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documents by default. Each document *must* contain a unique ``_id``
```
Suggestion: The sentence seems a bit too long.

   causes the driver to throw a ``WriteError``.
 
For more information about the ``_id`` field, see the Server Manual Entry on
:manual:`Unique Indexes </core/index-unique/>`.

Insert a Single Document
------------------------

Use the ``InsertOne()`` method to insert a single document into a collection.

Upon successful insertion, the method returns an
``InsertOneResult`` instance that contains the ``_id`` of
the new document.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following example creates and inserts a document into the
``favorite_books`` collection using the
``insertOne()`` method:

.. code-block:: go

   coll := client.Database("myDB").Collection("favorite_books")
   doc := bson.D{{"title", "Invisible Cities"}, {"author", "Italo Calvino"}, {"year_published", 1974}}

   result, err := coll.InsertOne(context.TODO(), doc)

   fmt.Printf("Inserted document with _id: %v\n", result.InsertedID)

Your output should look something like this:

.. code-block::
   :copyable: false

   Inserted document with _id: ObjectID("6112c7cacf7fb532a9c0077f")

For more information on the types and functions mentioned in this
section, see the following resources:

> - `InsertOne() API documentation <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo@v1.7.0#Collection.InsertOne>`__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `InsertOne() <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo@v1.7.0#Collection.InsertOne>`__ API documentation 
```

Nit: I personally only highlight the function/type 

Applies to the section below too.

- `InsertOneResult API documentation <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo@v1.7.0#InsertOneResult>`__
- Server Manual Entry on :manual:`insertOne() </reference/method/db.collection.insertOne/>`
- Runnable :doc:`Insert a Document Usage Example </usage-examples/insertOne>`

Insert Multiple Documents
-------------------------

Use the ``InsertMany()`` method to insert multiple documents into a
collection. The ``InsertMany()`` method returns an ``InsertManyResult``

> instance that contains the ``_id`` fields of the inserted documents.

Reviewer: Nit: Can you make the wording and formatting in both sections consistent -- they contain the same content, but are worded and formatted differently. Either one is fine, but let's stick to only using that one kind.

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol
   
Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to **insert** documents into a MongoDB
collection.

> Before you can retrieve, update, or delete information such as user
> profiles or orders in MongoDB, you first need to perform an insert
> operation to load data. An insert operation inserts one or more
> documents into a MongoDB collection using one of the following methods:
> ``InsertOne()``, ``InsertMany()``, or ``BulkWrite()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can retrieve, update, or delete a document in MongoDB, you first 
need to insert a document. You can insert one or more documents into a 
MongoDB collection using one of the following methods:
``InsertOne()``, ``InsertMany()``, or ``BulkWrite()``.
```
Suggestion: Something along the lines of this.

The following sections focus on ``InsertOne()`` and ``InsertMany()``. For an
example on how to use the ``BulkWrite()`` method, see the :doc:`Bulk
Operations Usage Example </usage-examples/bulkWrite>`.

A Note About ``_id``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When inserting a document, MongoDB enforces one constraint on your

> documents by default. Each document *must* contain a unique ``_id``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
documents by default: each document *must* contain a unique ``_id``
```

Suggestion: As two separate sentences, the first sentence seems to be incomplete

field.

There are two ways to manage this field:

- You can manage this field yourself, ensuring each value you use is unique.
- You can let the driver automatically generate unique ``ObjectId`` values.

Unless you provide strong guarantees for uniqueness, we recommend
you let the driver automatically generate ``_id`` values.

.. note::

   Duplicate ``_id`` values violate unique index constraints, which
   causes the driver to throw a ``WriteError``.
 
For more information about the ``_id`` field, see the Server Manual Entry on
:manual:`Unique Indexes </core/index-unique/>`.

Insert a Single Document
------------------------

Use the ``InsertOne()`` method to insert a single document into a collection.

Upon successful insertion, the method returns an

> ``InsertOneResult`` instance that contains the ``_id`` of

Reviewer: Suggestion: Similar to what you did for the change a document page, I think you should list out the properties and whey are here

Applies to the InsertMany section too

the new document.

Example
~~~~~~~

The following example creates and inserts a document into the
``favorite_books`` collection using the
``InsertOne()`` method:

.. code-block:: go

   coll := client.Database("myDB").Collection("favorite_books")
   doc := bson.D{{"title", "Invisible Cities"}, {"author", "Italo Calvino"}, {"year_published", 1974}}

   result, err := coll.InsertOne(context.TODO(), doc)

   fmt.Printf("Inserted document with _id: %v\n", result.InsertedID)

The output should look like this:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Inserted document with _id: ObjectID("6112c7cacf7fb532a9c0077f")

For more information on the types and functions mentioned in this
section, see the following resources:

> - `InsertOne() <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo@v1.7.0#Collection.InsertOne>`__  API documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `InsertOne() <{+godocs+}/mongo@v1.7.0#Collection.InsertOne>`__  API documentation
```
Applies to all API links.

   { "_id": 1, "country": "Tanzania" }
   { "_id": 2, "country": "Lithuania" }
   { "_id": 1, "country": "Vietnam" }
   { "_id": 3, "country": "Argentina" }

If you attempt to insert these documents, a ``WriteError`` occurs at the
third document because of the repeated ``_id`` value, but the documents
before the error-producing document still get inserted into your collection.

.. note::

   You can get an acknowledgement of successful document insertion even
   if a WriteError occurs:

   .. code-block:: go
      
      docs := []interface{}{
	      bson.D{{"_id", 1}, {"country", "Tanzania"}},
	      bson.D{{"_id", 2}, {"country", "Lithuania"}},
	      bson.D{{"_id", 1}, {"country", "Vietnam"}},
	      bson.D{{"_id", 3}, {"country", "Argentina"}},
	  }

      result, err := coll.InsertMany(context.TODO(), docs)
      list_ids := result.InsertedIDs
      if err != nil {
	      fmt.Printf("A bulk write error occurred, but %v documents were still inserted.\n", len(list_ids))
      }

      for _, id := range list_ids {
	      fmt.Printf("Inserted document with _id: %v\n", id)
      }
   
   The output should look like this:

   .. code-block:: none
      :copyable: false
      

>       A bulk write error occurred, but 2 documents were still inserted.

Reviewer: Nit: The wording would be incorrect if there was only one document -- maybe change the second clause to "but the following documents were inserted:"  and print the array/interface of the _id?

       bson.D{{"title", "Lucy"}, {"author", "Jamaica Kincaid"}, {"year_published", 2002}},
       bson.D{{"title", "Cat's Cradle"}, {"author", "Kurt Vonnegut Jr."}, {"year_published", 1998}},
   }

   result, err := coll.InsertMany(context.TODO(), docs)
   list_ids := result.InsertedIDs
   fmt.Printf("Documents inserted: %v\n", len(list_ids))

   for _, id := range list_ids {
	   fmt.Printf("Inserted document with _id: %v\n", id)
   }

Your output should look like this:

.. code-block:: none
   :copyable: false

   Documents inserted: 3
   Inserted document with _id: ObjectID("6112d6a0acf85446f904eb91")
   Inserted document with _id: ObjectID("6112d6a0acf85446f904eb92")
   Inserted document with _id: ObjectID("6112d6a0acf85446f904eb93")

For more information on the types and functions mentioned in this
section, see the following resources: 

- `InsertMany() <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo@v1.7.0#Collection.InsertMany>`__ API documentation
- `InsertManyResult <https://pkg.go.dev/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo@v1.7.0#InsertManyResult>`__ API documentation
- Server Manual Entry on :manual:`insertMany() </reference/method/db.collection.insertMany/>`

> - Runnable :doc:`Insert Multiple Documents Example </usage-examples/insertMany>`

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we should continue doing this as we start go-docs -- lets ask the team tomorrow and adjust accordingly for this and the change a document page
